Architecture Part III (#425)
ElektraInitiative/PermaplanT: doc/architecture/04solution.md

## Type Safety

We use specific types (prefer enum over int over string etc.) and share types whenever possible:

- [Diesel](https://diesel.rs/) is used to share types between the database and backend code.
  We use type-safe queries (and not raw queries), whenever possible.
- [typeshare](https://crates.io/crates/typeshare) is used to share types between Rust, API and Typescript.

## Validation

- The frontend should validate data as early as possible, usually during input using [React Hook Form](https://react-hook-form.com/).

> - We don't need to validate data in the backend.

Reviewer: I think we should also validate important input in the backend. 
Type validation is done by actix web, but some constraints could be bypassed by just validating in the frontend.
For example, payment data or data associated with gamification achievements.

Author: Yes, I agree f76c19312f1b390a174737cf079701e3026118f0

## Type Safety

We use specific types (prefer enum over int over string etc.) and share types whenever possible:

- [Diesel](https://diesel.rs/) is used to share types between the database and backend code.
  We use type-safe queries (and not raw queries), whenever possible.
- [typeshare](https://crates.io/crates/typeshare) is used to share types between Rust, API and Typescript.

## Validation

- The frontend should validate data as early as possible, usually during input using [React Hook Form](https://react-hook-form.com/).
- Important data should be also validated in the backend.
  Type validation is done by actix web, but some constraints could be bypassed by just validating in the frontend.
  For example, payment data or data associated with gamification achievements.

## State

- Both frontend and database contain the latest and complete state.

> - The backend is state-less, all state is in the database or in the token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The backend is state-less, all state is in the database or in the auth token.
```

> - The frontend has structured state per layer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The frontends map editor has structured state per layer.
```

[See also frontend state management](../decisions/frontend_state_management.md) for which libraries are being used.

## Concurrent Use

The user wants to see changes that other users are making on the map, therefore the data needs to be kept in sync.
The data is kept in sync between the client and the server through [API calls with axios](https://www.npmjs.com/package/axios) and server-sent events (SSE).
This means the backend is always up to date with the users actions and users can see what others are doing.

> - Data must be immediately send asynchronously to the backend on any user action.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Data must be sent immediately and asynchronously to the backend after any user action.
```

- Calculations in the backend can always assume that database is up-to-date.
- No timestamps are needed for data consistency.

> - No conflict handling in the frontend.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- There is no conflict handling in the frontend.
```

- No conflict handling in the frontend.
- If a user loses the connection, the frontend must go into a read-only state.

### Actions

> Actions are minimal, encapsulated state changes from elements elements on the layer of a map.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Actions are minimal, encapsulated state changes from elements on the layer of a map.
```

Upon coming back online the changes made are synchronized and the lock is released.

See also [offline use case](../usecases/assigned/offline.md).

## Identity and Access Management

Only the landing page can be seen without registration.
We use [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/) for Identity and Access Management with 3 roles:

1. default-roles-permaplant (only [public maps and the membership application](../usecases/current/membership_application.md) can be visited)
2. member (can do everything but administration tasks)
3. admin (possibility to change data from other users, as needed for onboarding or offboarding)

## Privacy

> In general all data must to stay within the organisation (Verein) and can only be seen by members or even only admins.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In general all data must stay within the organisation (Verein) and can only be accessed by members or admins.
```
This sentence makes it sound like every member of the orgranization can access everyone elses data without restriction.
I think you meant to say that members can only access their own data or data that was explicitly shared with them, while admins can access everything.

Author: ```diff
-In general all data must stay within the organisation (Verein) and can only be accessed by members or admins.
-Personally identifiable information should be stored in Keycloak.
+In general all data must stay within the organisation (Verein).
+Members see other members' data only if they allowed it.
+Data which makes a person identifiable should be in Keycloak.
```

254d7bcc933ccd7d60148962041c8af6c3e721ee

> Data which makes a person identifiable should be in Keycloak.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Personally identifiable information should be stored in Keycloak.
```
